# Sau baat ki ek baat

Language and expression are what makes conversations so lively and human. As with everything, we simplify complex narratives into easy shorthands to make it easy to
digest and remember. Idioms is simplification of complex narratives for language. Something like "ek anaar sau beemar" , which roughly translates 
to "Demand is larger than the supply". 

As is the case with simplifying any complex narrative, these simplifications are potentially stale , like "Curiosity killed the Cat" , which is a curious cat 
which goes roaming around / nosing around might get killed. It may not really apply to current times though, one who is curious now , might really have the world at
their feet. Curiosity now can be quenched without nosing around too much . 

Simplfications also contradict each other. For e.g. Kar bhala to ho bhala is "do well to recieve well" and "neki kar dariya me daal" ( do good things and dont expect 
any returns) dont really go well together. Similarly, "jab jab jo jo hona hai, tab tab so so hota hai" is nothing is your hand and "apni kismat apni mutthi mein hai" , 
which is You write your own fortune. 

Despite the staleness and contradictions, I really am a fan of simplifying complex narratives though. Some of the lessons are age old and even though they may not be 
applicable universally, they do provide a sense of relatability to the world around us. I may not remember everything that my grandmother learned, but i will remember 
what she said and what idioms she used. One of my absolute favorite is what my grandmother used to say to me, " baniye ke baan na jaaye, kutta moote taang uthaye" which is " Nobody changes their habits , 
just like how a dog will pee only with leg up" . I think about this everytime, I ask someone to change their habits that i don't like.

One of my goals in my writing for now is to find a idiom/analogy that helps explain what i wanted to convey. 
To phir "Sau baat ki ek baat" ... 
